Adds a defintion for essential text change (#1916)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: pages/glossary/essential-text-change.md

---
title: Essential Text Change
key: essential-text-change
unambiguous: true

> objective: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objective: false
```

input_aspects:
  - Accessibility tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM tree
---

> An _essential text change_ occurs when the text content of an HTML element is required to convey accurate information to the user. An _essential text change_ may appear in any of the following forms:

Author: I find this to be awkward, but I also couldn't figure out a good way to say it without doing something like:
> An essential text change occurs when the changing of text on a page is essential.

> An _essential text change_ occurs when the modification of the text content of an HTML element is necessary to convey accurate and timely information to the user. An _essential text change_ may appear in any of the following forms:

Reviewer: Would something like a clock or a count-down be considered essential. For example on a new years calendar, an auctioning site counting down when the auction closes, or a ticket site counting down to when tickets go on sale?

Author: I think if it is a core functionality of the website then it would be considered essential. E.g., in a web page that is only a large clock counting down to new year then the text change of the clock would be essential.

> 1. Providing context - Text is changed to provide users with additional information required to understand the current state of the page. For example, while searching for results, text may change to convey the page is *loading* to provide context to the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Providing context - Text is changed to provide users with additional information required to understand the current state of the page. For example, while searching for results, text may change to convey that the page is *loading* to provide context to the user.
```

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. 

Author: This feels very awkward, namely specifying that the information must be important in order for this to qualify. I felt the need to do this since I wouldn't qualify the examples given in Understand 2.2.2 like weather or stock ticker information as important enough to be exempt from having controls. *However*, there could be information such as safety alerts/updates that I would consider to be exempt.

Reviewer: Yeah, this one's difficult. Who decides what should and what should not be ignored? I think we should maybe just try to give a list of the types of things that shouldn't be ignored? Maybe, financial data, information on the status of a user session, that kind of thing.

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. For example, updates to a users financial information or browsing sessions status would constitute an `essential-text-change`. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe adding something like live news updates in case of danger (e.g. safety/evacuation instructions in case of natural disaster or terror attack).

Author: Agreed (and very relevant given the hurricanes hitting the US right now), I will add something to that effect.

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. For example, updates to a users financial information or browsing sessions status would constitute an `essential-text-change`. 

Reviewer 2: Should we add examples that are **not essential**?

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. For example, updates to a users financial information or browsing sessions status would constitute an `essential-text-change`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. For example, updates to a users financial information or browsing sessions status would constitute an Essential Text Change. 
```

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. For example, updates about the users browsing sessions status or important safety information like evacuation instructions in the case of a natural disaster would constitute an Essential Text Change. Oppositely, information such as stock prices or advertisements are not important information and would not be considered an Essential Text Change. 

Reviewer: This still feels fairly open-ended. Who decides that something is important, and that the user shouldn't ignore it? I think I'd like to see a list here of scenarios what we think are essential.

Author: I would agree, though the fact that it isn't objective helps with that some. I could add a few more examples so our total list would be the examples below. Would that be sufficient?

Important information:
1. Browsing session status (from definition)
2. Safety information (from definition)
3. Changing text which represents a core functionality of the web page, such as the time readings at https://www.time.gov/ or a countdown timer for an auction site (I'm not sure if this one works, as pausing it you should still be able to get something from the site)
4. A change in text when using collaborative systems, such as a chat messenger, forum, or other collaboration software.
5. A text change triggered by user input, such as selecting an option in a text-based adventure game.

Non-Important Information:
1. Stock ticker information (from definition)
2. Advertisements (from definition)
3. Live sports scores
4. "Rolling" updates such as job postings, or news article titles and links
5. Countdown timer to an event that does lose opportunity for the user, such as a countdown to the start of a sports game.

Reviewer: I like that, yeah that sounds good to me.

---
title: Essential Text Change
key: essential-text-change
unambiguous: true
objective: false
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM tree
---

> An _essential text change_ occurs when the modification of the text content of an HTML element is necessary to convey accurate and timely information to the user. An _essential text change_ may appear in any of the following forms:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An _essential text change_ occurs when the modification of the text content of an HTML element is necessary to convey accurate and timely information to the user. An _essential text change_ may appear for any of the following purposes:
```

1. Providing context - Text is changed to provide users with additional information required to understand the current state of the page. For example, while searching for results, text may change to convey that the page is *loading* to provide context to the user.

> 2. Live updates of important information - The content automatically updates to show the most recent information available from a data source and should not be ignored by the user. Importance of information is often subjective and requires some amount of human understanding, so we have provided examples below to help illustrate when text should be considered important.

Reviewer: This is still open ended. What I was really hoping for here is a semi-definitive list of things that are essential. Anything that isn't on the list isn't essential. I tried to do something like that with the definition of [essential text presentation](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1969/files#diff-4a01a104eef4098b17b94e7fdf93e7720a0da132098bd10a77e8624e9a0081c3R2).

Reviewer 3: Agree that It is open-ended, but this is not an objective definition. Does it really have to be close-ended?

    *Important*
    - Information on the user's browsing session status
    - Information pertaining to the safety of the user, such as a natural disaster alert
    - A change in text when using collaborative systems, such as a chat messenger or forum
    - A change in text triggered by user input, such as selecting an option in a text-based adventure game
    - A change in text that represents a core functionality of the web page, such as a countdown timer for an auction site
    
    *Not Important*
    - Text changes that do not require immediate user action, such as stock ticker information, sport scores, or advertisements

>     - "Rolling" updates containing informmation such as job postings or news article titles and links

Author: ```suggestion
    - "Rolling" updates containing information such as job postings or news article titles and links
```
